Recently, I was told that when I teach, I tend to “project my mindset onto whoever I am teaching.” Before, I’ve learned not to give other people the answers they are looking for and to not tell others what to think, but ever since that conversation, I’ve been more aware of how I interact with others. 
This past week, I was teaching my sister for her interview, but I found it difficult to guide her thoughts through the problems. Teaching computer science is more akin to teaching another language rather than teaching a concept. In science, you can guide others through each step using logic. You can ask, “What would happen if you threw the ball harder?” However, with computer science, it becomes more like imagining the world cast in a different light. Things that you had taken for granted would bury your feet into the ground, trapping you in a rift between worlds, unable to make progress.
Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to teach my sister in time for her interview, but it gave me a greater appreciation for my own professors who taught me. When sorting numbers, a normal person may simply just “do it” in their head. For better or worse, I now analyze problems into their fundamental components, trying to find patterns. When sorting numbers, if you already have two sorted lists, you only need to compare the first numbers of each and take the smaller one. You don’t have to account for any other numbers in both lists because any other number is guaranteed to be greater. You can exploit this unique property to make sorting efficient.
Building this second way of seeing the world didn’t happen overnight, and the lens isn’t perfect. The lens I use for computer science is hyper-analytical and procedural; it breaks down problems, scrutinizing the smallest details to find patterns to exploit while also finding abstractions to hide those details to complete tasks. I have another for math and science that is logical; building upon known theories and tools to test hypotheses, sometimes using trial-and-error. There is also one for my art, dealing with emotions and memories; weaving a web of all of my experiences, stories, emotions, lessons, motivations, goals, aspirations, regrets, and soul to search for innovative ideas and ways for expression.
There are so many different lights to see the world in, and I wish I could see all of them. When the world is tinted blue or red, it still takes time to learn to watch it in violet. Other lenses might place me miles into the sky, watching how the surrounding mountains hold this town in their hands. It might filter out noise to isolate a certain pattern or add more noise to show how similar everything really is. 
So when I get a chance to teach you something, don’t let me tell you what to think. Let me show you how to see the world in a different color than you are used to. Let me show you how to crawl through that world, so that you can eventually learn to smell the roses along the way.