When do you feel like yourself?
This past week, I have been asking this question and have gotten answers from talking with others to going to the gym. Recently, I have been reflecting on what makes me feel like myself and what brings me back to the present.
Playing the piano used to be my hearth–a place that I could go to for comfort and presence. My breathing became the ebb and flow of the tides in my mind, catching in my throat as they crashed on the shoreline. My fingers, frolicking among the keys like dolphins dancing above the waves, drew vibrant ripples through the air, soaking the world in color. The soft ivory of the keys was cold to the touch, holding against the weight of my fingers as I pressed against them. First, my fingers; second, my hands; third, my arms; and finally, I would lift my body from the bench, pouring my gilded soul into the keys, my spirit splashing and pooling around the drowning room.
The room, submerged, glowed and shimmered as if light refracted off the air itself. Lines of light blurred before my eyes, embracing my vision in a haze of kaleidoscopic warmth. As I tasted the sharp sting of salt on the edges of my lips and felt the tickle of fallen feathers on my cheeks, the weight of the cloth on my skin held me to the ground. As I let the sea’s tides brush my face, my hands continued to play, weightlessly submerged, yet pushing and pulling against the weight of navy blue. When the water’s warm embrace drains itself from the room, the sting of cold air prickles my arms, sending shudders down my spine and setting my hairs on end.
Yet, now as the trees start to glow in warm lights and I start to feel the chilled air of autumn through my clothes, no matter how fast I run, these moments are as fleeting as the swirl of leaves waltzing above the west quad. Watching the world around me spin as I look from above, I search for an anchor to return to my body, adrift in the tides and at the mercy of the waves that pull me out and under.
As presence continues to elude me, I’ve slowed my jogging, feeling the sun on my face and enjoying the rustle of the leaves. Notes begin to escape my lips as I run along the pavement, pulled forward by the streaks of colored metal flying ahead. The knots that coiled around my core, callously constricting it until my breaths became shallow, finally started to fall away with every song into the September air. My body has started to feel like home again.
I could finally recall again the warm of my palm on my fingers as I press my nails into the soft bed; the way my clothes press against my skin as the crisp morning air fills my chest; and the throb of my heartbeat echoing into the soles of my feet as I begin my journey back to my body, free and weightless as I float along the ocean’s waves.