The last time I played volleyball was Thursday, August 21st from 9:30 PM to 10:30 PM in a gym of bright lights with a distinct and crisp smell. However, the memory I keep going back to was two weeks before that.
The first time I came to play there, I played on a team with my dad and met so many great people. One of the best players on the team had an incredible amount of control over her body and the ball. Every move she made was calculated, every step and every roll. Though her role was arguably the most technically challenging, watching her was simple. A simple step and push. An arm out into a roll to her feet. A shuffle and a hip turn.
As we played together, we meshed together seamlessly in more ways than one. Next to each other, no ball could hit the ground. Opposite each other, she knew exactly where to place the ball. It was like we had played together our entire lives, yet we had only met an hour before. Calling out exactly what we needed from each other, I knew her weak spots and she knew mine, allowing us to support each other while amplifying each others’ strengths. As she gained momentum, I fed off of it, leading to a cycle that pushed our team forward.
In the memory that keeps resurfacing, as she played, her movements were smooth and simple, but the results fell short. Nothing she touched seemed to be satisfying enough. The team was still playing normally, an efficient machine without many weaknesses. As the night went on, she slowly cast a deafening silence onto the team. Our playing started to suffer as we got into our own heads. Easily affected by my thoughts, as I made more mistakes, I would stop believing in myself, feeding into the loop. Her playing didn’t matter to us, but it was her voice that carried power.
Having gone through the cycle of overthinking and crawling back to confidence countless times, I brought her to the side to pass the ball back and forth, a drill that always worked for me. It wasn’t that she needed practice. The purpose of that drill was to gain confidence. It was my way of giving her permission to walk before running again. The foundation that we have built may not always be able to hold what we put on top, but that doesn’t mean that we stop stacking. The base may corrode/rust/crumble over time, but it just means that we have to climb back down our ladders to reinforce our ground or expand it before we continue.
After talking through the drill, she stepped back into the court, more optimistic than before. As she took her first step, it ended in a fall. With some encouragement, she got up again ready for the next ball that came her way. The second step she took was shaky. The ball went up and was enough for the team to run smoothly. With every new step she took, she improved her footing. Switching roles, it was my turn to give her enough momentum and energy, but in no time, the gears in the team started turning again. Her gear was still rusted, but you could never tell with our performance.
The gears that she brought to the team were valuable, but it was her ability to arrange the gears of the team and fuel the machine that was invaluable. To the outside, we seemed like a fortress of a team, but inside, it was a group of elegantly simple parts powered into something greater. We didn’t have the same attacking power, athleticism, height, or physical ability as the other teams, yet we still won.
The next time I get to feel satisfying and comforting impact of soft leather on my forearms, I’ll remind myself that even if my gear isn’t as sharp as before, it just needs some more attention. In the meantime, I can still fuel the machine while clearing any debris that slows the others gears from turning.